what is up everybody welcome to another
episode of impact theory today we're
going to be talking all about one of my
favorite topics and that is web3 we're
going to be talking about how to
understand it what it is how to get
involved how to leverage it it is i
truly believe the future this is going
to be massive this is a tectonic
foundational shift that is going to
impact society as dramatically as the
internet did and i'm going to be
answering your questions all about it
all right question number one
what to your best ability is a simple
and brief definition of web3
okay this is a definition i didn't think
of this i've heard it said many times i
don't know who coined it but web one was
read-only so you would go to a web page
there would be content there and you
could
read it take it in web 2 was read and
write so you could go to a site like
facebook and not only could you read
content but you could actually post your
own content web 3 is a whole new thing
that introduces ownership and
participation so you've got web one read
only web two read and write and web
three not only do you have read write
but you have own and
participate
so this is where things really begin to
get interesting is now you're going
through a period where kids are being
raised in playing games like minecraft
and roblox and quite frankly the ability
to create inside of a video game has
existed for a long time and remember
back in the 80s excitebike from nintendo
had a track creator and you could go in
and create your own track and it was a
lot of fun your friends could play it
and so gaming has been
playing around with this idea for a long
time and as those games have gotten more
popular as the technology has built up
you get people spending a lot of their
time in these games creating things now
the missing component all of this if
you're going to spend that kind of time
and energy
then you want to be able to own the
things that you're creating in that
space and so the ability to have the
blockchain technology which is really
what has allowed web3 to thrive is now a
digital item
can be verified as owned by a given
person now that is incredibly important
and that idea was the missing link and
so now that we have the blockchain
technology and
digital items can no longer just be
right click saved which is the joke in
the web3 community is that people are
like well you just paid you know half a
million dollars for that jpeg but i can
just go right click save it and now i
own it too and the thing that they don't
understand is hiding within that jpeg or
the real one
is matrix code and so based on that
matrix code i can actually read whether
that's the real one or not and i can
tell whether you have a fake one or not
and based on whether you have the real
one or not i can give you advantages it
could be access to a video game it could
be access to certain levels in a video
game it could be wearing that shirt or
having that weapon in that game it could
be taking that avatar into the metaverse
it could be showing up to a live show
and me scanning that and knowing that
you have the real nft and either letting
you into the show or not it could be as
more infrastructure is built like
twitter is going to be verifying that
people have the authentic
nft in their profile picture for
instance and as that kind of
infrastructure gets built out now that
ownership really matters and it begins
to play out not only in the ability to
flex and say i own it kind of like
leaning up against the lamborghini is
very different than actually having the
lamborghini owning it being able to
drive it do things take it home park in
your garage
go racing down the road whatever it is
you want to do with it when you actually
own it you can do and the divergence
between a right-click save version of an
nft and an nft that you own and has that
matrix code in it that can be verified
all over the place is only getting wider
and wider and wider and wider
so as more places also verify the real
one versus the fakes then even just the
pure status symbol of it all is going to
carry across because you won't be able
to like now you can get a fake fendi bag
or a fake rolex but eventually
the ones that are real are going to be
verified in all the different places
that you would flex it so you know
whether that's open c right now which
i'm sure many people don't know what
that is uh but it's a website that shows
the different things you own you know
whether it's that or whether it's
twitter i'm sure instagram will follow
suit tick tock all of them
will ultimately do this video games the
same
it will be obvious whose things are real
and whose things are fake so
that uh even just again on that flexing
side is going to become a thing but the
utility is where the real play is all
right so that is the synopsis of web one
two and three
this episode is sponsored by athletic
greens get a free one-year supply of
vitamin d and five free travel packs
with your first purchase
simply visit athleticgreens.com
impact theory now enjoy the episode
all right the next question the term web
3 was coined in 2014 why is interest in
web3 spiking now the reason for that is
the blockchain didn't exist um you know
a long time ago and then even as it came
into existence oh god i forget the exact
year 2009
i want to say um even back then the
adoption rate on that was very low and
so a technology like the blockchain
requires what's called metcalfe's law
which is about network adoption so if
you have a phone but you're the only one
with a phone the phone is not very
useful if you have a phone and your
friend has a phone boom now we've got
something that's usable if your friends
friends all have phones even more useful
and then as we see this goes on and when
the whole world has phones they become
incredibly powerful the same is true of
the internet if one website exists on
the internet not so great if a thousand
websites exist and i can connect to all
of those amazing if a million 100
million a billion then all of a sudden
it gets very very interesting very fast
and the utility skyrockets and so as
adoption has happened in web 3 so has
the value increased and so that's why
we're seeing this explosion in interest
now and by the way i'm saying this
january 10th 2022 mark my words when
this feels like the distant past that
web 3 what's going to happen in the next
three years so
by january 10th 2025 and we'll have to
replay this clip
things are going to be
almost unrecognizable from where they
are now and the access that i've been
getting to people that are building
things that haven't yet been announced
it's
incredible what's being built and i've
heard it said before follow the
developers and if you look at all the
developer energy pouring into the web3
space and the incredible things that you
can create when you're able to verify
ownership in something
it's incredible because you can verify
ownership not only can somebody own but
that means you can create something that
people want to buy you can sell you can
generate revenue as you can generate
revenue now you have incentive to create
this stuff and so because of the
financial incentives people are pouring
in creating this incredible creative
stuff on the back of this amazing
technology and
man when i look at some of the
infrastructure stuff that's being put in
place now and i project out where we're
going to be in three years it is going
to be absolutely incredible a deep
integration with so many different
aspects of your life
gaming obviously collectibles art this
stuff has already happened but as you
get deeper down in that rabbit hole and
as things begin to get regulated and
people really understand where this is
going integration into
banking into real estate into
um
all manner of things physical goods digi
physical merging medical records it is
going to get insane there are going to
be so many
applications that are born out of this
because you now have this global reach
with your i mean take collectibles this
is part of why the nft market is
exploding collectibles has always been
something that had to be physically
traded right there was a lot of trust if
i was going to buy a card and you were
going to send me that baseball card and
i was going to pay you 20 000 for that
card yikes like the amount of trust that
has to be worked into there and getting
brokers or being physically together at
a show things like that
all of that goes away when this is
digital it's verified on the blockchain
i can have a transaction with anybody
anywhere in the world and i can do it
instantaneously now all of a sudden it's
a global market it becomes huge it
becomes much easier to trade this stuff
and so because of that you get the
financial incentives you get more people
paying attention you get that network
adoption which makes the value go up
even more which makes more energy pour
in which makes cooler and cooler things
happen and as those network effects take
effect you get more people building the
infrastructure which gives you things
like twitter verifying your nft which
makes your nft more valuable it makes
more companies look at how do i sell my
physical clothing through an nft or if
i'm a band how do i make that ticket
matter and become a collectible that
changes over time or has other utility
over time it's crazy you are literally
only limited by your imagination and the
power of computers in the internet it is
utterly astonishing what's happening so
as the technology gets better more
people pour in and it just so happens
that we've recently hit a tipping point
so that's why it's popping off now
next question
what are five good sources of
information any kind of information that
you would consider essential to gain an
understanding of web3 okay
so twitter and discord those are going
to be two of the most important things
now this is one that i think is going to
change over time so this is probably not
going to be an evergreen answer but
certainly as of today those are great
places to start you want to go and find
people that are giving good information
and please find people that are kind and
uplifting it is so much more fun and i
absolutely am
not only is it boring to be around
people that are negative but it really i
think is a bad look for the space so
find people that are wonderful joyful
that are uplifting that are trying to
make this a better place to be that want
to see you succeed and do well but find
those people on twitter i promise they
are there they are wonderful they have a
ton of information uh you can look and
see who i follow uh so you can follow me
on twitter tombilyou
and
check out who i followed that would be a
simple place to start and then from
there look at the people that you really
like who are they following follow
hashtags you can certainly follow
hashtag web3 you follow hashtag nft nfts
there's a few simple things start
following those you'll see who's putting
out good information who's doing it in a
positive and encouraging way
and then from there discords of
different projects that you like that is
where a lot of this is going on and then
if you find people that are really in
the space i found that there are a lot
of whatsapp and telegram groups if you
find like-minded individuals i find the
smaller groups are better but people
sharing ideas and information whether
it's a group of builders or whether it's
a group of collectors or whether it's a
group of traders but finding people that
are approaching it the way that you're
approaching it that are excited about
things you're excited about that's a
great place and then most importantly
get involved so whether that's on openc
which is ethereum's main
website secondary market or if solana
continues to gain attraction
finding a place where you can go and
pick up actual nfts that you're excited
about and i highly encourage you to buy
nfts that you want because you want to
hold them not because you think they're
going to skyrocket in value some do but
the vast majority of them do not so you
want to make sure that you're buying
things one
uh only spending money that you can
afford to lose and then two buying
things you actually legitimately excited
about and so whether that's excited
about the team what they stand for what
they're building the art whatever but
just find something that you're excited
to have nfts is technology and
technology takes time and so when people
are getting in with a gold rush
mentality i find a they usually lose
money and b they're often very
frustrated but if you take a longer
approach and treat it like you would a
collectible around a movie or a tv show
that you absolutely love and so even
when the tv show goes off the air you
still have the relationship with that
story with those characters and so
having that collectible item having that
connection to it
still gives you that emotional resonance
so that is very much
where i would start so yeah that to me
is uh the place to begin that was four
and then the fifth of course if you
haven't already subscribe to my youtube
channel uh make sure that you do that
i'm hyperactive in the space um and
trying to put out a ton of content that
people can use so there's five good
sources of information
let's talk about athletic greens my
friends the all-in-one daily drink to
support better health and peak
performance to help each of us be at our
best ag-1 by athletic greens simplifies
the path to better nutrition by giving
you the one thing with all the best
things one tasty scoop of ag-1 contains
75 vitamins minerals and whole
food-sourced ingredients including a
multivitamin multi-mineral probiotic
greens superfood blend and more in one
convenient daily serving and right now
athletic greens is doubling down on
supporting your immune system they're
offering our audience a free one-year
supply of vitamin d
and five free travel packs with your
first purchase simply visit
athleticgreens.com
impact theory that's athletic
impact theory and get your free one year
supply of vitamin d and five free travel
packs today athleticgreens.com
impact theory all right guys take care
and be legendary
all right next will web 3 contribute
towards a more balanced society all
right boy do i wish you were in the room
so i could ask you what you mean by a
balanced society but i'm going to take
this answer to somewhere a little dark
that i don't know that people are
expecting
ray dalio
the largest hedge fund manager in the
world somebody who is really attuned to
macro trends
has written a book i haven't read it yet
but this is at the absolute top of my
reading list because i'm familiar with
the ideas
about
how world orders change
and the decline of one superpower the
rise of another superpower and
how
countries even within themselves can
begin to fracture
and rey dalio has pegged
the odds of some type of civil war
whether it's outright war or it's a cold
civil war
i believe he put it at 30 percent
and i don't think he's crazy
and the reason is when you see
inequality reach the levels that it's
reached now
historically
the only thing that has ever been able
to
distribute wealth effectively enough is
war
or
revolution
and my hope
is that web 3
is the bloodless revolution that we need
to redistribute wealth and if you look
at the people that moved early in crypto
that was already just a huge
redistribution of wealth if you look at
some of the successful people in nfts
there's been huge wins don't get me
wrong it's a wildly volatile asset class
and so i don't necessarily even
encourage people to look at it as an
asset class but certainly that's been a
way
for people to generate
a lot of money as builders for way for
people again that are successful to
generate a lot of money as
traders so
my hope is that the blockchain is really
ushering in a whole new way
for
the fast movers the builders the
creatives to come in and
build
a whole new way of doing things that is
sidestepping the traditional systems and
some of the brokenness of the
traditional system and hopefully making
things such that we all have an equal
playing field that we all have the same
starting line and
once
part of what makes web3 work is
decentralization which i'm sure there
are some people that are mortified that
in my definition of web 3 i did not talk
about decentralization so let me address
that now i don't know that it's going to
be a critical component of the web 3
future
i know that people some people are going
to have a seizure over that
and
the reason is this is a game of
psychology let me explain
decentralization
right now part of the problem is
everything belongs to centralized
organizations so take the censorship
problem in social media because
a small number of companies own these
massive distribution platforms for
communication if they don't like what
you're saying they can shut you down and
if they shut you down you've got no
recourse there's nobody else with that
kind of reach there's just no platform
that you can be on that will
match the reach that they have so
decentralization makes it such that no
one person has that kind of control
and they call it censorship resistant or
censorship free so take the ethereum
blockchain for instance i don't know how
many nodes are i think once i said there
was a lot i think i said a lot more than
there really are uh so i won't uh hazard
a guess again but it's a lot thousands
maybe even tens of thousands of nodes
and
they're all running the blockchain and
so in running that or sorry in in
running the different nodes and having
the um the entire record of everything
that's happened on the blockchain
leading up to that moment you get this
thing where you would need 51
of those nodes to be
hacked taken over in order for them to
all agree with something that is false
and
by doing that you make it such that
nobody could kill it off even if one
government tried to kill it off it would
just spring up in another country
somewhere if one person tried to kill it
off it wouldn't matter because there are
so many nodes nobody knows who everybody
is and so it'd be very very difficult
even with a lot like governmental money
it would be very very difficult to hack
enough of those computers
in order to
get it to report something that was
false and so because of that you
get this really interesting effect which
is good and bad because it can be
once something happens on the blockchain
it's immutable so there have been many
people who have been tricked into giving
someone else what's called their seed
phrase to their wallet we're getting
into deep waters here but you store nfts
in a wallet you can store your
cryptocurrency in a wallet and then if
somebody manages to socially engineer
you into giving up your seed phrase then
they can take over your wallet and even
though
your assets are plain to see on the
blockchain you know exactly who has them
you can't forcibly take them back
and so if you had that kind of
decentralized
distribution of something like a social
media platform where no one person could
shut it down now all of a sudden you
can't censor somebody and so
it becomes very interesting when you
think about money that becomes very hard
to capture very hard to seize so the
government can't just come in and seize
it like i don't know if you guys know
what happened in cyprus like what 10 or
11 years ago where they went in and just
said all right everybody we're taking i
forget how much your money let's call it
three percent hey everybody uh
everybody's bank account is now less
three percent because
and that would be needless to say pretty
offensive um and
when you have something that's
decentralized people can't go in and do
that and so even if a government were to
come and physically accost you if you
don't
they could take your freedom but they
couldn't necessarily take your nfts or
your bitcoin or your ethereum or
whatever you have stored in the
blockchain you would have to give them
that access if you have it on a
decentralized exchange or a
decentralized
wallet
so
it really is pretty interesting so in a
web3 world there are a couple of things
that make me very optimistic one is just
this totally new paradigm that allows us
to to sidestep the traditional systems
it may allow us to sidestep the
centralized nature although again i'm
not so sure that decentralized will
win for the masses i think it will
always be there for the people that want
it but i think some people prefer
convenience prefer safety prefer
insurance
but maybe infrastructure will be built
that will take care of that and preserve
decentralization which i think would be
magically delicious
that that sort of will play out over
time we'll see where that goes but it's
a new paradigm a new technology that's
allowing new creators to come into the
space and people that have traditionally
been iced out now have an opportunity
it's uh the blockchain is really the
first time especially cryptocurrency
is the first time where the individual
can front run the institutions and that
doesn't mean the institutions aren't
going to use their savvy to soak up as
much of this as humanly possible
but there are many things that now
depending on how this ends up getting
regulated
where if you're supporting a product or
a company and you buy something you now
can capture some of that long tail
economic value so take the impact theory
founders key
that was me saying okay as a company
impact theory is making all this ip we
have all these cool things from our
university to ad-free content and
we want to create an umbrella project
that allows a very limited number of
people to have all different kinds of
access to things that other people can't
get access to so we created the founders
key and now in theory i mean of course
it could go to nothing it could go to
zero who knows but if we execute well it
could also continue to deliver utility
value and even if that's all we ever do
owners of those keys will get a
tremendous amount of value if on the
other hand by giving the value to those
key holders and keeping the number
limited or even beginning to shrink it
over time the value of those keys may go
up again there's no guarantee but that
certainly
makes sense if we're executing well over
time and we keep that supply limited and
we're putting enough cool utility where
more and more people want it then there
are a number of keys now it's the
community that gets to reap ninety
percent of that long tail economic value
we keep ten percent to support it in an
ongoing fashion but ninety percent of
that is for the community and so to me
that is really extraordinary and that's
why i say that web 3 is going to be
marked by ownership and participation
and even looking more at that
participation element which i think is
really important is now because i can
prove who owns an impact theory founders
key for instance one of the things that
we have with our legendary tier is
something called the right to partner so
as we build out this intellectual
property our first project being
a
brand
called merry mods and merry mods is a
christmas related project it's a story
it's got characters and all this really
cool stuff and
if you have a legendary key you could
for instance when somebody actually did
this you could build a christmas tree
ornament company using our ip and so now
for people that historically wouldn't
have been able to build a company
because they don't have the brand behind
them that that would give them a leg
forward a leg up uh
they just never started anything and so
now i think more companies are going to
create sandboxes in which people can
create so whether that's you as a writer
being able to make fan fiction of
something like
neon future or mary mods or one of our
other all systems go all the different
projects that we're working on we're
creating these sandboxes where people
can come in and create and then take
advantage of if you can build an
audience off of that that you would be
able to then do things within that
community that either push you forward
grow your audience or you can monetize
them depending on what you're doing so
it's really that participation that
ability to participate there's actually
something a project really cool project
i do own some of these but i'm in no way
um involved behind the scenes uh but
called critters and that was somebody
that took a minecraft server and created
uh basically land ownership that you
could earn by buying these critters
staking them that's outside of the scope
of this conversation and that staking
your critters which is basically people
playing with those characters inside the
game minecraft the game people are
already playing that you earned this
reward called blocks and the blocks you
could use to buy land and then the land
generated
money items whatever i actually haven't
played it yet so i don't know
but in doing that and renting out your
critters and having the land you could
earn
these rewards and those rewards have an
economy that you can actually sell for
real money and so it becomes utterly
fascinating when you look at
the fact that people are taking these
in-game economies and turning them into
real-life money and so there's this
whole genre called play to earn and as
you play the game you're actually
earning money and so or i should say
earn things that you can then turn into
money
absolutely fascinating and we're in such
the early innings of what is going to be
a very long game it'll be incredible to
see where this goes over the long run
so my hope is that all of those
different and creative ways for people
to get engaged and to sidestep the
traditional institutions that have
historically kept certain people out
that we will have in that way a more
balanced society
all right
what are the best first steps to taking
advantage of the opportunities that web3
has to offer after educating myself this
is where you want to get involved so
again don't spend any money that you
can't afford to lose you never know this
stuff could all go to zero but the only
way to really learn something is to take
action to get involved with it and so
as you begin to explore find those
projects that you really like find those
discords you want to be in find those
ecosystems where people have created a
sandbox
for people
that are let's say a key holder or a
holder of that nft it certainly does not
need to be keys but holder of that nft
that can go in and either create or take
the board api club which give you
certain rights to the actual ape that
you own and so you've had people launch
coffee companies using their board ape
there have i think already been
commercials if not i think you will see
that in the future using the board apes
so there are going to be many many ways
that people can take the nfts that they
own and create
from them and so
by getting a hold of ones
that give you access to a community that
you resonate with that allow you to go
in and create and experiment with this
stuff you'll really begin to see how
this stuff understands or how it works
so you can understand it better
and there's also something in this is
like its own conversation
but something called daos
decentralized autonomous organizations
and
what they let people do is basically
come together as a loose collective that
um oftentimes has a treasury in fact one
of the most interesting one is the nouns
dao and every day the nouns dao releases
a single noun it's a an 8-bit graphic it
basically looks like something nintendo
would have made back in the 80s and
people bid on it and they pay whatever
they want to pay for that days now and
there's one created a day forever and
the money that goes to each auction goes
into
the treasury of the nouns doubt and then
every member that buys one
is on the governance committee of the
nouns now and they can decide what they
want to do with the money and so you see
how these things end up creating
companies and to give you an idea the
first noun so day one sold for 1.8
million dollars so right away you've got
a company that generated in a single day
almost 2 million dollars and i forget
how much they've been selling for but
they've been selling for a lot six
figures each one every day so it's
really pretty extraordinary when you
think about how much
wealth they're accumulating into that
treasury and then we'll see over time
what they end up doing with it but it's
really pretty extraordinary the number
of different opportunities that web3 is
creating and this is why i'm so bullish
on this long term i really think that
this creates a foundational shift we are
so early in this space and the the
amount of creativity the amount of
mind-blowing things that are happening
is extraordinary just go look at the vv
community another one where the their
vivi is a company that does um basically
film related and comic related
collectibles
and even with that symbol of a thesis go
look at the creativity that's being
displayed in these vv vaults it's
bananas it is bananas and that kind of
self-reinforcing
community
of creating and being celebrated by
other community members gets excitement
around these projects which pours more
people into them getting more network
effects pouring more money into the
systems creating more network effects
and so on and so forth it goes
and it's really the way that web3 is
proving to unlock creativity that i find
most exciting
all right
don't let it pass you by do the research
if you walk away and say that this
doesn't make any sense you think i'm
crazy i totally get it i could be wrong
absolutely i come from the ray dalio
school of thought i think i'm right but
how do i know i'm right so do your own
research put in a good 25 hours of
looking into this stuff i think 25 leads
to 100 i think 100 leads to 500 and in
that you'll really begin to see the
opportunities here it will spark your
own creativity you'll find that you
either want to engage or you want to
build or both i've never seen more
energy pour into something than this
the number of people that are saying
this is like the early internet i was
focused on something totally different
back then so i can't say uh but in 20
plus years of business i've never
witnessed anything like this ever in my
life so i'm highly encouraging you guys
to get involved go do the research
go do the research
see if this sparks your creativity see
if you see opportunities in this i
really think that there are going to be
huge winners that come out of the
blockchain space i think that this is
forever knowing the things that i've
seen that are being developed
underground that haven't even broken the
surface as they say it takes five years
for
bamboo to build its root system but then
once the root system is complete in
whatever like three weeks it can grow 60
feet tall or some outrageous it really
is close to that outrageous number
that's what i feel like has been going
on below the surface so like you said
web 3 was coined back in 2014 but now
all of a sudden boom things are just
growing up so fast and the amount of
stuff that's being developed
that hasn't been talked about yet it
hasn't been released yet i'm just
telling you right now it is going to be
huge it is so awe inspiring
do the research
that could be crazy
but i don't think so
all right speaking of things you should
do if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care peace